# 2022

*You'll find below all the updates of our SaaS offers. Enjoy!*

## December 2022

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> Guided tutorials - Collect product variations

In this technical tutorial, we introduce you to 2 use cases that you may encounter for retrieving products with variations.
- **Use case 1**: Collect all product variation information, just as they are in the PIM (up to 2 possible levels)
- **Use case 2**: Collect all product variation information on 1 level only

👉 Learn more about [how to collect product variations](https://api.akeneo.com/tutorials/how-to-collect-product-variations.html)

## November 2022

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> Guided tutorials

We created a “Guided tutorial” section to list all of our new guided tutorials.  
This section is dedicated to tutorials with PHP and JS code snippets to show you an optimized way to extract the PIM data. 
Use our "App workflow" use case to filter the tutorials you can follow when starting your App project or any other filter to find precisely what you're looking for!

👉 Discover our [Guided tutorials](/tutorials/homepage.html) section

### <span class="label label-news label-updated">UPDATED</span> <span class="label label-news label-notice">NOTICE</span> Optional SKU

**⚠️ This update could have an impact on existing integrations.** 

From November 2022, the product identifier value (pim_catalog_identifier attribute) has now become optional, and can be removed from a family.

👉 Learn more about [how to migrate from product identifiers to UUID](/getting-started/from-identifiers-to-uuid-7x/welcome.html) 


## October 2022 

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> Catalog for Apps

Catalogs for apps ease the process of app development and configuration.

With Catalogs, you can:
- only retrieve the products you need
- have less code to maintain if you already developed a UI
- don’t have to master the PIM catalog structure anymore to provide a relevant filtering interface to your users
- and spend less money on configuration UI by using an on-the-shelf solution we provide

Additionally, **app users** are more autonomous by configuring their data selection from Akeneo PIM UI and benefit from a consistent user experience.

👉 Learn more about [Catalogs for apps](/apps/catalogs.html) and discover our new [Catalogs endpoints](/api-reference-index.html#Catalogs)


## September 2022

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> <span class="label label-news label-notice">NOTICE</span> Product UUID

**⚠️ This update could have an impact on existing integrations.** 

Akeneo PIM used to contain one and only identification: the 'identifier' field (the only `pim_catalog_identifier` attribute of the whole product). In Serenity, this field value is the SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) of the product, but what if you need to identify your product with several product identifiers (SKU, EAN, GTIN...)? Adding classic fields won't do the job you need a more flexible identifier field for each product. And you still need a way to identify your product if its SKU has changed.

That's the purpose of the brand-new product UUID.

But before making it happen, a product must have a **unique** and **unalterable** way to identify it: that's why we introduced the product UUID, which stands for Universally Unique Identifier.

👉 Learn more about [how to migrate from product identifiers to UUID](/getting-started/from-identifiers-to-uuid-7x/welcome.html) 

### <span class="label label-news label-fix">FIX</span> Bug fixes
- Products - empty completenesses table returned as an object instead of an empty array
- Products - empty associations and quantified associations returned as an empty array instead of an empty object


## August 2022 

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> New filters on assets and records 

You can filter assets by requesting **multiple asset codes** and filter records by requesting **multiple Reference Entities Records codes** via our API using the “IN” parameter. 

👉 Learn more about [Filters](/documentation/filter.html)

### <span class="label label-news label-updated">UPDATED</span> <span class="label label-news label-notice">NOTICE</span> Reminder: Akeneo PIM is case insensitive

**⚠️ This update could have an impact on existing integrations.** 

We updated the behavior of PIM imports for simple select attributes to harmonize the way all select attributes work, whether they are simple or multi.  
Since this change, **the API returns the value configured in the attribute settings** even if an option code is imported (file import) with the wrong case.
    
*E.g. for the color attribute, we have the following options in the attribute settings: red, blue, green…*  
Before the update: if a user was importing the value RED for the color attribute, the API was returning RED as the value.  
Now: if a user imports the value RED for the color attribute, the API returns red as the value. 

## July 2022

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> Catalog for Apps

We introduce the concept of catalogs to help you better master the Akeneo PIM data in your app. 
As we like to get your feedback, we choose to first deliver a **beta version** of this feature. If you want to try it, feel free to reach out and give us your feedback.

👉 Learn more about [Catalogs for apps](/apps/catalogs.html) and discover our new [Catalogs endpoints](/api-reference-index.html#Catalogs)


## May 2022

### <span class="label label-news label-updated">UPDATED</span> Connect improvements
We made some improvements to manage connected app authorization updates better. 

Now, if/when your app needs more authorizations, app users don't need to delete the connected app and reconnect it to their PIM. All users who can manage apps will receive a notification to entice them to click on `OPEN APP` and grant the new authorizations requested thanks to the step-by-step activation process. 

We also made some UX improvements to make the app connection experience even smoother.

👉 Learn how to [update your app authorizations](/apps/authentication-and-authorization.html#update-authorization-and-authentication-scopes)

## April 2022

### <span class="label label-news label-fix">FIX</span> Bug fixes
- Measurement families - empty labels returned as an empty array instead of an empty object
- All messages returned by the API are written in English only


## March 2022

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> OAuth 2.0 

You can now connect your app to the Akeneo PIM thanks to the OAuth 2.0 protocol. 

👉 Learn more about [Authentication and authorization](/apps/authentication-and-authorization.html)


### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> OpenID Connect

You can now connect your app to the Akeneo PIM and get user information using OpenID Connect.

👉 Learn more about [Authentication and authorization](/apps/authentication-and-authorization.html)


### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> Demo App

To help you understand how Akeneo Apps works, we published the [Akeneo Demo App](https://apps.akeneo.com/extension/akeneo-demo-app) on our [App Store](https://apps.akeneo.com/). You can connect it from any Akeneo PIM and test it. 

👉 Learn more about [how to implement the OAuth2.0](/apps/authentication-and-authorization.html#getting-started-with-oauth-20) or check our [Akeneo Demo App code on Github](https://github.com/akeneo/demo-app). 


## January 2022

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> Developer mode and test apps

To help app developers test their app before publishing it on the [Akeneo App Store](https://apps.akeneo.com/), we added a `Developer mode` on all our partner sandboxes. 
With this mode, you can create test apps and get app credentials directly from the PIM.

👉 Learn more about the [App developer starter kit](/apps/overview.html#app-developer-starter-kit)

### <span class="label label-news label-added">ADDED</span> NOT BETWEEN filter

The `NOT BETWEEN` operator is available on updated and created dates for products and product models endpoints.

👉 Learn more about [Filters](/documentation/filter.html)
